At game start, the glove portion of Michigan is a prison colony. There is a
one mile wide exclusion zone on its southern border. This zone, the lakes and
the remains of bridges are patrolled by drones operating under a "kill first,
ask questions later" protocol.

After the Trump disaster, a secretly radical Libertarian managed to get
elected on a platform of efficiency and not medling in the affairs of private
individuals. This president somehow (?) effected a dramatic reduction in
military spending.

This led to the tech and aerospace industries all but ending their rosy
relationship with legislators. California, Washington and the companies which
called them home lost any motivation to support a system which had nothing to
offer them. The Free Cascadia project finally had business support and
successfully succeeded from the union.

With the fifth largest economy in the world (California) no longer
contributing to the federal budget, the president was faced with an even
larger problem than he had been elected to tackle. His solution was to further
cut spending by enacting an aggressive troop withdrawl program.

It might have been a successful response if executed gracefully, but instead
the execution was urgent and sloppy. Hundreds of thousands of troops suddenly
had to choose which of the two countries to return to and neither option was
tenable. In Cascadia the majority of the troops' skills were not valuable to a
modern, automated economy which largely only wanted information workers. The
rest of the States were devestared by the reduction in military spending and
suffered massive unemployment across all sectors.

With nothing better to do, many troops found their skills valued by organied
crime syndicates. Those who could not even find such work turned to
disorganized crime to survive and care for those who depended on them.


